# AmbientEye: A Dataset for Pupil Segmentation under Natural Ambient Infrared Illumination

Eye tracking is essential for smart glasses as it provides direct user attention for ambient intelligence. However, most existing eye tracking systems rely on active infrared (IR) illumination, creating practical barriers for all-day outdoor use in terms of power consumption and robustness. In this paper, we investigate whether passive IR cameras alone, without any active IR light source, can enable reliable pupil detection in unconstrained outdoor environments, where ambient sunlight serves as the sole illumination source. To support this investigation, we introduce AmbientEye, a large-scale dataset of 2,606,225 eye images collected from 35 participants across 19 countries. It is captured outdoors under natural sunlight with two off-axis cameras configurations and two sun-orientation conditions. We provide high-quality pupil annotation through refinement by the refinement from human annotators after SAM2 automatic segmentation. We benchmark a state-of-the-art pupil segmentation on our dataset in comparison with other existing datasets under controlled IR illumination. Results reveal a substantial pupil segmentation performance drop from 0.928 on controlled IR datasets to 0.767 on our challenging AmbientEye with ambient IR illuminations. Together, these performance gaps contribute to the difficulty of the ambient-light setting that is explored for the first time by our AmbientEye, positioning it as a benchmark for an underexplored scenario of eye tracking.
